# CS-340-H7045-Client-Server-Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
I made sure my code was modular and organized. Each CRUD operation had its own function as well as each dashboard item. Developing this way makes my code easier to maintain and allows me to adapt it to other, similar projects. The CRUD Python module could work with any MongoDB database, provided I change a few lines of code.  I could also refactor all identifying information for a database into input parameters. This would allow the CRUD Python module to work with any MongoDB database without changing code. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
My approach to this project heavily relied on learning about database interaction and how to best approach CRUD operations. I took advantage of Python’s simplicity and made functions that were short and concise. This allowed me to easily implement them into my dash framework and tackle Grazioso Salvare requested functionality. I believe my approach only differed in the sense that I needed to keep front end and back end in mind, as opposed to just back end. I needed to make sure my code was easy to access from the dashboard to make that part of the project easier to develop. I will continue to use the same strategies from this project and others in the future.  

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists make it easier for people to communicate with computers and perform specific tasks. We create code which can help users and businesses perform their operations in an efficient and timely manner. We also constantly improve our approaches as the capability of machine expands. This allows us to create things that make daunting tasks into simple interactions. This project makes it easier to create and interact with databases. If I were to continue my work on it, I would expand upon the dashboard to make it easier to engage with the other CRUD operations offered by my python Module. I would also expand the UI to allow for all aspects of database management with MognoDB. 
